# Method

📌 **Method**, also known as a member method. Advantages: Don't reinvent the wheel.
   It can improve code reusability.
   It can encapsulate details for easy use by other users.

## Define a Method

```java
[1.access modifier] [2.return type] [3.method name] ([4.parameter list]) {
    [5. Method body];
    [2. return value];
}
```

### 1. **Access Modifier**

🛠 Control the scope of method use.

Access modifiers have four types: public, protected, [default], private.

### 2. **Return Type**

🛠 The data type of the return value.

- A method can have at most one return value. Arrays can be used to return multiple values.
- The return type can be:
    - **Primitive data types** (e.g, int, double, boolean).
    - **Reference data types** (e.g, class/object - String, arrays).
    - `void` indicates no return value.
- The last statement must be `return`. The value of `return` must be consistent or compatible with the return type of the method.

### 3. **Method Name**

🛠 Meaningful and follows the camelCase naming convention. Example: getSum, getUserName…

### 4. **Parameter List**

🛠 Data type and name given to the method.

📌 Formal Parameter - Formal Parameter. `getSum(int n1, int 2n);`
Actual Parameter - Actual Argument. `object.getSum(10,5);`

- The type of formal parameters can be:
    - Primitive data types: int, double, char, boolean, etc.
    - Reference data types: String, int[], double[], etc.
- When calling a method, formal parameters and actual parameters must be in the same order, have the same number, and correspond to the same type or be compatible.
- The name of formal parameters is independent of other methods. When calling, the external actual parameter variable can have the same name as the formal parameter.

### 5. **Method Body**

🛠 It can involve input, output, variables, operations, branches, loops, and **method calls**.

- Methods cannot be defined inside other methods.
- **Calling methods in the same class**: call directly.
  
    ```java
    class ClassA{
    	public void printText(String n){
    		System.out.println(n);	
    	}
    	public void sayOK(){
    		printText("OK");
    	}
    }
    ```
    
- Recursion: calling a method in the same class itself.
  
- **Calling methods across classes**: call via object name.
    1. Create an object of the target class.
    2. Use this object to call its method.

```java
class ClassA{
	public void printText(String n){
		System.out.println(n);	
	}
}

class ClassB{
	ClassA a_class = new ClassA();
	a_class.printText("Hi");
}
```

## Creating a Method

1. `public`: access modifier, indicating that the method is public.
2. `void`/`int`: return type, void means the method has no return value.
3. `speak()`: run is the method name; ( ) is the parameter list.
4. `{ }`: method body, the code to be executed.

### Example 1: No return value (void), one parameter

```java
class Person{
	// field
	String name;

	// method
	public void speak(String n){
		System.out.println(n);
	}
}
```

Call method 

```java
Public class Method01{
	public static void main(String[] a){
		// Create an object
		Person p1 = new Person();

		// Call the speak() method of object p1,
		// and pass in a String parameter.
		p1.speak("Hi i am Nick");
	}
}
```

### Example 2: With a return value (int), multiple parameters

```java
class Person{
	// field
	String name;

	// method
	public int getSum(int n1, int n2){
		int result = n1 + n2;
		return result;
	}
}
```

Call method 

```java
Public class Method01{
	public static void main(String[] a){
		// Create an object
		Person p1 = new Person();

		// Call the speak() method of object p1,
		// and pass in two int parameters,
		// then save the data with an int variable.
		int returnResult;
		returnResult = p1.getSum(10, 20);
	}
}
```