# Narrowing Casting

📌 Conversion from a larger to a smaller data type. However, data loss (precision loss and overflow) may occur.

## Java Type Casting

Type casting is when you assign a value of one primitive data type to another type.

In Java, there are two types of casting:

- **Widening Casting** (automatically) - converting a smaller type to a larger type size
  `byte` -> `short` -> `char` -> `int` -> `long` -> `float` -> `double`
- **Narrowing Casting** (manually) - converting a larger type to a smaller size type
  `double` -> `float` -> `long` -> `int` -> `char` -> `short` -> `byte`



## Precision Loss

- When converting from a type with decimal places to an integer, the decimal places are truncated.

```java
float num1 = 2.9;
int num2 = (int)num1;
// result is 2
```

## Overflow

- When converting from a larger data type to a smaller one, overflow may occur.

```java
int num1 = 2000;
byte num2 = (byte)num1;   // byte -128 to 127
// result -48 due to binary representation
```

## Other 

**The Narrowing-Casting-Operator Only Affects the Nearest Value**

- When applying the forced conversion operator, it only affects the nearest value. For example, if you want to convert the result of a `double` calculation to an `int`.

```java
int wrong   = (int)10 * 3.5 + 6 * 1.5;    // Error
                            // Only 10 is cast to int. The result is a float, which cannot be automatically converted to int.
int correct = (int)(10 * 3.5 + 6 * 1.5);  // Correct
                            // The entire calculation result is cast to int.
```



**`char` Can Store Constant Values of `int`, But Not Variable Values**

- `char` can store constant values of `int`, but not variable values. For variable values, forced conversion is required.

```java
char num1 = 100;         // correct
int  num2 = 100;         // correct
char num3 = num2;        // Error, int cannot be automatically converted to char
char num4 = (char)num2;  // Correct, num4 outputs 'd'. ASCII code 100 corresponds to the character 'd'.
```

****

**`byte`, `short`, and `char`, when two of the same kind are involved in an operation, are treated as `int`.**

- Correct

```java
byte b1 = 1;
byte b2 = b1;
```

- Error

```java
byte  b1 = 1;
byte  b2 = 3;
byte  b3 = b1 + b2; // Error, during the operation, b1 and b2 become int, and int cannot be converted to byte
short s4 = b1 + b2; // Error, during the operation, b1 and b2 become int, and int cannot be converted to short
int   i4 = b1 + b2; // Correct